# Next JS Docker Setup

Dockerizing a Next.js application can help simplify running and managing projects in your teams. With a docker setup we won't need to install node, yarn, and other dependencies on machines manually and can have consistent behavior between different environments. Here is our recipe for creating a basic Next.js application with docker. This guide assumes that an application has already been set up like in our [guide](/tech/nextjs/setting-up-next-js.md) or any other method.

## Dockerfile

The Dockerfile gives instructions on how to build a docker image. We usually put commands here for installation, file initialization or directory management. We add it to the root directory of our project with Dockerfile as the filename.

```dockerfile
# replace * with actual version (e.g. node:18.20.0)
FROM node:*.*.*

# yarn
RUN curl -sS https://dl.yarnpkg.com/debian/pubkey.gpg | apt-key add -\
    && echo "deb https://dl.yarnpkg.com/debian/ stable main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/yarn.list \
    && apt-get update \
    && apt-get install -y yarn

RUN mkdir /app
WORKDIR /app
```

We base off our application image on a prebuilt node js image. Take note that Next.js requires at least node 16 and newer versions recommend 18. We also install yarn as our choice of package manager.

## Docker compose

When running applications in docker, we generally prefer to break things down into services and docker compose is the tool we use to achieve this. We just need one service, which is `web`. Unlike rails or phoenix, we won't need to make a db service since the web service won't necessarily need to access a database. We declare our services in a `docker-compose.yml` file, which we put in the root directory of our project:

```yaml
version: '3'

services:
  web:
    build: .
    command: 'yarn dev'
    volumes:
      - '.:/app'
      - 'node_modules:/app/node_modules'
      - 'next:/app/.next'
    ports:
      - '3000:3000'

volumes:
  node_modules:
  next:
```

The `web` service is our main service that we'll use to start our Next.js application. We specify `build .` to make it use the image we built in the `Dockerfile` in the same directory. To persist some of our dependencies on the host machine we use volumes for `node_modules` (Node.js modules) and `next` (files generated by next js in `/app/.next` folder) so we don't need to install every time. We specify port 3000 so that when the service runs the specified command it will use that port. This can be changed to any port applicable and available.
